Concept of Blockchain


Blockchain as a public digital ledger of transactions that is duplicated and distributed across the entire network of computer systems. Each block in the chain contains several transactions, and every time a new transaction occurs on the blockchain, it gets mentioned in a block and the block is added to every participant’s (or every participating computer’s) ledger. This decentralized database managed by multiple participants is known as Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT).


Blockchain by having distributed identical copies of a database across an entire network (networks of nodes which are essentially high-speed computers), makes it very difficult to hack or cheat the system. While cryptocurrency is the most popular use for blockchain presently, the technology offers the potential to serve a very wide range of applications.
Thus this means, Blockchain is essentially a distributed digital ledger(like a distributed data base) that stores data of any kind like, information about cryptocurrency transactions, NFT (Non Fungible Token) ownership or DeFi  smart contracts (Decentralized finance) or D’apps(Decentralized application).
So, to summaries, Blockchain is a system of recording information in a way that makes it difficult or impossible to change, hack, or cheat the system.
 
How does it work?
A blockchain is a chain of blocks and each block consists of N numbers of transactions in a block. So each block consists of a subset of transactions. Computers or so-called nodes ( or miners) validate these blocks by solving a mathematical problem. When a block is completed and validated, it will be attached to the next block. And this happens again and again.
This means if one block in one chain was changed, it would be immediately apparent it had been tampered with. If hackers wanted to corrupt a blockchain system, they would have to change every block in the chain, across all the distributed versions of the chain.
 
How these nodes reach to Consensus !?
Basically, it’s a form of how nodes on the network can reach a resolution even though minorities may not like it.
The consensus is one of the core priorities of a blockchain because, without it, thousands of nodes can never come to an agreement. These models exist to create fairness and equality among all the participants.
However, there’s no one way to reach a consensus within a system. There are lots of algorithms that various blockchain platforms use. Obviously, every single one of them works differently and comes with its own set of flaws. 
Most famous of them is Proof of work which is currently used by Bitcoin and Ethereum Blockchain.
Proof of Work
It’s one of the popular and first consensus algorithms introduced in the blockchain. Here, nodes (or miners), and they will solve complex mathematical puzzle with help from their device’s computational power to verify transaction coming in a new block,also known as a proof, to a specific challenge. This proof is difficult to produce but is very easily validated.
For example – guessing a combination to a lock is a proof to a challenge. It’s very hard to produce this since you will need to guess many different combinations – but once produced it’s easy to validate. Just enter the combination.
Let’s see in case of Blockchain
The miners bundle up a group of transactions into a block and try to mine. To mine it, a hard mathematical problem must be solved. This problem is called the proof of work problem which must be solved to show that the miner has done some work in finding out the solution to the problem and hence the mined block must be valid.
The miner who manages to solve the problem first, broadcasts it to all the fellow nodes in whole network at the same time. If all the other nodes validate the solution by equating it with the same problem. If majority agrees with the solution provide by the broadcaster. The node who broadcasted the solution gets the bitcoin reward and adds the block into the blockchain. And all other nodes add the block once it’s validated by majority.
NOTE: Every miner competes and continues testing different unique values (known as nonce(s)) until a correct one is reached.
So, this means node who manages to solve it first gets the bitcoin reward, a cryptocurrency prize (the reward) provided by the Network (E.g. Bitcoin or Ethereum) and adds the block into the blockchain and the node 
To summaries,
Miners compete:  Nodes (or miners) compete on the basis of computational power to be the first to solve a complex math problem. Showing proof of this computational work and earns the miner the right to process the block of transactions.
New block is processed: The winning miner processes the block of transactions, plus mints more of the cryptocurrency, and adds a new block to the cryptocurrency’s blockchain.
Blockchain is updated: The new block is then distributed to all other nodes (or miners), who each maintain a copy of the blockchain for the network.
Along with this, it’s an energy-intensive process that can have trouble scaling to accommodate the vast number of transactions


History of Blockchain
Blockchains such as Bitcoin and Ethereum are constantly and continually growing as blocks are being added to the chain, which significantly adds to the security of the ledger.
So, Blockchain as a technology was developed to create a digital currency. The goal was to become independent of banks. So, it was important to ensure full security when exchanging money. 
Bitcoin and the concept of its blockchain were first introduced in the fall of 2008 as a whitepaper and later released as open-source software in 2009. The author who first introduced Bitcoin in that 2008 whitepaper is an anonymous programmer or cohort working under the name of Satoshi Nakamoto.
what Nakamoto created is an extraordinary peer-to-peer payment system that enables users to send Bitcoin directly and without an intermediary to hold the two parties accountable. The network itself acts as the intermediary by verifying the transactions and assuring that no one tries to cheat the system by spending Bitcoins twice.
Nakamoto's goal was to close the large hole in digital trust, and the concept of the blockchain was his answer. entirely online because it reframes trust by recording relevant information in a public space that cannot be removed and can always be referenced making deception more difficult.
this essentially means, Bitcoin blockchain is a public ledger of all transactions in the Bitcoin network, and the nodes are computers that are recording entries into that ledger. The Bitcoin blockchain is the oldest, and one of the largest, blockchains in the world. It's composed of thousands of nodes that are running the Bitcoin protocol.
Bitcoin was designed primarily to send the Bitcoin cryptocurrency. But very quickly, the creators realized that it had a much larger potential. With that in mind, they architected the blockchain of Bitcoin to be able to record more than the data concerning the movement of the token.
But the bitcoin network was only to keep bitcoin transactions. It doesn’t allow to build any other application on top of Bitcoin Blockchain network, which basically means Bitcoin network of nodes can only serve cryptocurrency as its use case i.e Bitcoin cryptocurrency. 
Rise of Ethereum
Initially, Ethereum was similar to Bitcoin, because all networks of that time were copying various traits of Bitcoin. It also incorporated a Proof-of-Work algorithm to produce blocks with the aid of miners who backed it up with hardware resources.
The difference was in its own scripting language, which allowed to write applications and execute them in a decentralized way. Gavin Wood (lead code developers of Ethereum who would later depart to found two major Blockchain protocols like Polkadot and Kusama) wrote the Yellow Paper with all specifications for this language before actual development started. This concept of decentralized execution of a program upon triggering some predetermined condition is called “smart contract.” Thus Ethereum became the first decentralized blockchain platform for smart contracts.
This phase would be called among the insiders “cryptocurrency 2.0” or the phase in which finally crypto would move beyond the application that Bitcoin had brought around money. In short, it wouldn’t be just about money, as a use case, but rather about applications, decentralized applications, that could potentially be built on top of this new infrastructure.

This would become his approach and strategy in developing the Ethereum protocol. Rather than thinking in simple use cases and potential applications, Vitalik Buterin started to think in terms of a programming language that could accommodate an unlimited number of use cases. 

Vitalik Buterin at the time described Ethereum as “a next-generation cryptographic ledger that intends to support numerous advanced features, including user-issued currencies, smart contracts, decentralized exchange and even what we think is the first proper implementation of decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) or companies (DACs)” (those would stick as some of the core use cases for Ethereum). 

Indeed, contracts (or smart contracts) would become the killer application for Ethereum. Those contracts represented ‘agents’ running specific pieces of code every time a transaction is sent to it and even more interestingly more advanced versions of these agents would be even able to modify their own code (thus becoming autonomous agents).
